# HW 5 Writeup

This week, we discussed a chapter from Walton's book on "Prop Oriented Make Believe." Walton supposes that engaging in metaphor or idiom is "playing a game of make-believe." This made me think of our earlier discussion of "what is a game?" Is this "game of make-believe" a game? My gut instinct is to say no. There are players, but no rules or goal. It is "seperate from normal life," which does the majority of the lifting for the claim to "gameness" but that's itself does not convince me. Make believe is a form of play, but also I don't think all forms of play are games. I think games need rules and goals. Sledding down a hill is play, but there aren't rules beyond the rules of the universe and existence like gravity. If you do something like go down the hill with no sled, you haven't "failed at sledding." Anyway I think I am of the opinion that "game" of make-believe is a bit of a misnomer, if analyzing from a ludologic viewpoint.

Unpacking was fun. I think humans are inherently curious, and we are wired to make connections and extrapolate information. I don't like the label of "playing make believe" when you do this though. I think Walton is really in love with the concept of "make-believe" and is trying to create a philisophical frame work that filters everything through that lens. When I play unpacking, I don't feel like I'm playing make believe, I feel like I am trying to make deductions based on incomplete information. I think there is an emotional difference here between how it feels to imagine something you can't see, and to actually "play pretend," and I think Walton ignores this. I thought the song at the end of the game was a little too on-the-nose. It felt like they needed to have a song explain the themes of the game for anyone that didn't get it. They should have made the lyrics more poetic to fit the tone of the game better.
